[IAC-1864] CIS 1.4 deployment guide (#639)
gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io: _posts/2019-10-17-how-to-achieve-cis-benchmark-compliance.adoc

This is a complete guide to help you achieve compliance with the
link:https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/amazon_web_services/[CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark]. By following this guide,
you can launch infrastructure that is compliant with the Benchmark recommendations, and you'll be set to retain a
compliant state over time because all of the infrastructure is defined as code. This guide targets version 1.4.0 of the Benchmark.

NOTE: Previously, we supported version 1.3.0 of the Benchmark. If you are looking to upgrade from v1.3.0 to v1.4.0,

> please follow link:/guides/upgrades/how-to-update-to-cis-14/[the upgrade guide] instead.

Reviewer: Link to 1.2 -> 1.3 guide also

  A reference table that maps each Benchmark recommendation to the corresponding section in the deployment
walkthrough.

Feel free to read the guide from start to finish or skip around to whatever part interests you!

NOTE: This guide has been last updated on 6th September 2021, and it covers CIS 1.4.0 Benchmark recommendations. We aim to keep
it up to date with our infrastructure-as-code modules with the latest CIS Benchmark that has been released.

> If you need to access older versions, please get in touch with us.

Reviewer 2: We already link to the upgrade guides on [lines 34-35](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io/pull/639/files#diff-19669a1c82aaf401b5d36357906f8f9d03cfbc22de9600fbd17dc47b6622722eR34), so I don't think we need to repeat that again so soon.

}
----

[[configure_rds_encryption]]
==== Configure RDS Encryption
To comply with recommendation 2.3.1, if you use RDS it must be configured with link:http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Overview.Encryption.html[RDS encryption] for all instances and in all of the enabled AWS regions within your AWS Account(s). You can set to `true` the Terraform `storage_encrypted` attribute for an RDS instance to implement the recommendation.

For example:

[source,hcl]
----
resource "aws_db_instance" "your_primary_db" {
  storage_encrypted = true
}
----

[[configure_s3_data]]

> ==== Configure your S3 Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Secure/Protect/? your S3 Data
```

Not sure which word fits better. Enabling MFA delete is to help protect the data and Macie is to monitor the data for Personal Identifiable Information

Reviewer 2: +1, "Secure your S3 data" sounds good to me.

Author: That's great context, Marina! Will change it to "Protect" - I think it fits better.

Author: oh shit, only just seen this! I'm happy to put it back to Secure.... if both of you think it's "secure" that's the one. I thought "protect" fits better here since securing is more for encryption and so on, whilst "protect" is to limit access, or organise it in a .... secure 😁 way

> The CIS 1.4.0 Benchmark recommend a few additional steps to ensure your data is secured and accessible. The two recommendations relate both to S3 and prescribe that the MFA Delete is enabled on all S3 buckets in your accounts (2.1.3) and that all data in your S3 buckets is classified, discoverable and secured using Amazon Macie. You'll be able to find more details on how to enable these in link:/guides/upgrades/how-to-update-to-cis-14/[the migration guide to CIS 1.4.0].

Reviewer: I think we can copy+paste the macie section here?

Author: I was thinking the same too. Good shout.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, a bit of duplication here is the lesser evil, I think. That way we ensure we never have dead links.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CIS 1.4.0 Benchmark recommends a few additional steps to ensure your data is secured and accessible. There are two new recommendations that relate to S3:

* 2.1.3 prescribes that the MFA Delete is enabled on all S3 buckets in your accounts
* 2.1.4 recommends that all data in your S3 buckets be classified, discovered and secured
```

For example:

[source,hcl]
----
resource "aws_db_instance" "your_primary_db" {
  storage_encrypted = true
}
----

[[secure_your_s3_data]]
==== Secure your S3 Data
The CIS 1.4.0 Benchmark recommends a few additional steps to ensure your data is secured and accessible. There are two new recommendations that relate to S3:

* 2.1.3 prescribes that the MFA Delete is enabled on all S3 buckets in your accounts
* 2.1.4 recommends that all data in your S3 buckets be classified, discovered and secured

NOTE: The steps below are not the full list of actions needed to configure MFA Delete or Amazon Macie for your account. To follow the steps necessary to configure it according to the CIS 1.4.0 Benchmark, please follow the MFA Delete and Macie section in the
link:/guides/upgrades/how-to-update-to-cis-14/[the migration guide to CIS 1.4.0], or the deployment guide section in this guide.

[[configure_mfa_delete]]
===== Enable MFA Delete (recommendation 2.1.3)

> Enabling MFA Delete in your bucket adds another layer of security by requiring MFA in any request to delete a version or change the versioning state of the bucket.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io/pull/647/commits/1e15bc5165ce855d7f735cc3d1025b6dc92d41e7.

    --bucket <BUCKET NAME> \
    --versioning-configuration Status=Enabled,MFADelete=Enabled \
    --mfa "arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT ID>:mfa/root-account-mfa-device <MFA CODE>"
----

We also created a https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-security/tree/master/modules/private-s3-bucket/mfa-delete-script[script] to help you enable MFA Delete in all buckets from a single account at once. To learn how to run it and when, please follow the production _Deployment Walkthrough_ guide section below.

[[configure_macie]]
===== Configure Amazon Macie (recommendation 2.1.4)
The new CIS AWS v1.4.0 recommendation 2.1.4 requires that all data in Amazon S3 be discovered, classified and secured.
One way to achieve this is the by leveraging the link:https://aws.amazon.com/macie/[Amazon Macie] service.
Amazon Macie is a fully managed data security and  data privacy service that uses machine learning and pattern matching
to discover and protect your sensitive data in AWS. To help you achieve this recommendation, we have created a dedicated
link:https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/tree/master/modules/security/macie[`macie` service]
in our CIS service catalog.

> ====== AWS Macie - manual steps

Reviewer 2: We made a judgement call *not* to cross link. We used to cross link a lot, but it was proving to be a bit of a maintenance nightmare (the target gets deleted or changed, and the link then points to the wrong place, etc).

[source,hcl]
----
terraform {
  source = "git::git@github.com:gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog.git//modules/landingzone/account-baseline-root?ref=v0.27.0"
}
----

Set the variables for the `account-baseline-root` module in this environment in the `inputs = { ... }` block of `terragrunt.hcl`:

.infrastructure-live/root/_global/account-baseline/terragrunt.hcl
[source,hcl]
----
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# CONFIGURE A PROVIDER FOR EACH AWS REGION
# To deploy a multi-region module, we have to configure a provider with a unique alias for each of the regions AWS
# supports and pass all these providers to the multi-region module in a provider = { ... } block. You MUST create a
# provider block for EVERY one of these AWS regions, but you should specify the ones to use and authenticate to (the
# ones actually enabled in your AWS account) using opt_in_regions.
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> generate "providers" {

Reviewer 3: SUPER NIT: I found it slightly confusing to understand the `generate` block here, as it references `locals` defined below it. We typically put the `locals` at the top for this reason. This is probably as low priority of a NIT as exists in the world, so it's totally OK to ignore this entirely 😁

Reviewer 2: Addressed in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io/pull/647/commits/ca08c5c99ae6af530a0766cb017f29afb35a32cf.

  # Both buckets will be created in the logs account by account-baseline-root
  config_s3_bucket_name     = "acme-config-bucket-logs"
  cloudtrail_s3_bucket_name = "acme-cloudtrail-logs"

  # The following locals are used for constructing multi region provider configurations for the underlying module.
  # A list of all AWS regions
  all_aws_regions = [
    "af-south-1",
    "ap-east-1",
    "ap-northeast-1",

>     # ...,

Reviewer 3: Why `...`? That means this code can't be copy/pasted. Any reason not to have the full list here?

Reviewer 2: Addressed in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io/pull/647/commits/1c37131de4f954365d95d4c80c2c8349a6e66ee8.
